Java is a programming language as well as a platform.

> It is Robust, Highe-level and Object-Oriented programming language.

Q. What is Java?
A. Java is a programming language as well as a platform. It is Robust, High-level and Object-Oriented programming language. it is also a secured programming language.

> Robust means it is a strong programming language. It is not easy to break the code of java.
> High-level means it is a user-friendly programming language. It is easy to understand and write the code of java.

> It has strong memory management. It has a garbage collector that collects the unused memory and frees up the memory.

for example, i have 5 functions and i am using only 3 functions. so, the garbage collector will collect the unused memory and free up the memory.

> It is a platform-independent programming language. It means we can run the java program on any platform like Windows, Linux, Mac, etc.

> It is a secured programming language. It has a security manager that checks the code of java and allows the code to run.

-> Java is divided into 3 parts:
1. Java SE (Standard Edition) : It is used to develop the desktop application.  (Swing, AWT)
2. Java EE (Enterprise Edition) : It is used to develop the web application.    (JSP, Servlet)
3. Java ME (Micro Edition) : It is used to develop the mobile application.      (Android)

Q. What is JDK?
A. JDK stands for Java Development Kit. It contains all the tools and libraries that are required to develop the java application.

Q. What is JRE?
A. JRE stands for Java Runtime Environment. It contains JRE and some set of libraries that are required to run the java application.

Q. What is JVM?
A. JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine. It is a virtual machine that is used to run the java application. It is also known as the heart of the java programming language.

Q. What is the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM?
A. JDk contains JRE and JVM. whereas JRE contains JVM and some set of libraries. JVM is a virtual machine that is used to run the java application.

Q. Who made Java?
A. James Gosling made Java in 1995.

Q. History of Java?
A. In 1991, James Gosling and his team started a project named Green. The main aim of this project was to develop a language for digital devices like set-top boxes, televisions, etc. But, the project was not successful.

> Initially it was called "GreenTalk" by James Gosling, and file extension was ".gt".
> After that, it was called "Oak" by James Gosling and was developed for handheld devices.
> In 1995, it was renamed to "Java" by James Gosling and was developed for the internet.

Features of Java:

1. Simple
2. Object-Oriented
3. Portable
4. Platform independent
5. Secured: It has a security manager that checks the code of java and allows the code to run.
6. Robust: Strong memory management
7. Architecture neutral
8. Interpreted
9. High Performance
10. Multithreaded
11. Distributed
12. Dynamic

Q. What is the difference between C++ and Java?
A. C++ is a programming language whereas Java is a programming language as well as a platform.
> C++ have Pointers whereas Java does not have pointers. (java uses pointers internally)
> C++ is not a secured programming language whereas Java is a secured programming language.
> C++ supports operator overloading whereas Java does not support operator overloading.
> C++ doesn't support Threads it relies on thrird party libraries whereas Java has built-in support for threads.
> C++ is nearer to hardware whereas java is not so interactive with hardware.